An introduction to the Bible, the Bible is a collection of ancient writings or books
that contain God's message for all people.
This message was put down in writing by approximately 40 different men.
It was written in Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek using Hebrew letters and Greek letters.
The writers came from many different backgrounds and lived in various places throughout the
ancient Near East and Southern Europe.
Yet everything in the Bible harmonizes.
There are no contradictions.
By various means God put His thoughts into the minds of these writers.
That is why the Bible says that all scripture is inspired of God.
People writing began in 1513 BCE.
It continued for the next 1,600 years.
The last books of the Bible to be written were completed about 98 CE.
The Bible's 66 books are grouped into two main sections.
The Hebrew Scriptures, often called the Old Testament and the Christian Greek Scriptures,
commonly called the New Testament.
The Hebrew Scriptures make up the first 39 books of the Bible.
The Pentateuch, or first five books, describe the creation of all things and the founding
of the ancient nation of Israel.
The historical books show how, after the nation of Israel enters the Promised Land, Israel
is unfaithful to God and is taken into exile but eventually returns to its homeland.
The poetic books feature sacred songs and practical wisdom for daily living.
The prophetic books foretell future events and contain instructions and warnings for God's
people.
The last 27 books of the Bible make up the Christian Greek Scriptures.
First, there are the four Gospels, a history of Jesus' earthly life and ministry.
Then Acts of Apostles narrates the history of the early Christian congregation.
There are 21 letters that contain practical counsel and encouragement for Christians.
The last book, Revelation, contains a series of prophetic visions.
In the Bible, God identifies Himself as the Creator, outlines His purpose, and reveals
His personal name, Jehovah, shown here in ancient Hebrew lettering.
Did you know, unlike any other book, the Bible magnifies God's name, Jehovah.
It mentions His name over 7,000 times, more than any other name.
Jehovah's purpose is for all intelligent creatures to live forever under His rulership.
In early in human history, Jehovah's sovereignty, or right to rule, was challenged by a rebellious
spirit creature called Satan, who spoke by means of a snake.
How Jehovah will clear His name and restore His rulership by means of His kingdom is the
theme of the Bible.
To answer Satan's accusations, Jehovah allows humans to pursue their own course.
He's a disastrous human rule follow.
Meanwhile, Jehovah arranges to accomplish His purpose by means of a Savior, the Messiah,
who will eventually become King of God's kingdom.
In time, Jehovah reveals who this Messiah will be.
Jesus, a spirit son of God, is miraculously born as a human.
He teaches people about Jehovah and sacrifices His life to save mankind.
God then resurrects Jesus back to heavenly life.
The Bible says that Jesus rids the heavens of all those who do not support God's sovereignty.
As King of God's kingdom, Jesus is joined by 144,000 co-rulers who have been bought from
the earth.
His kingdom will restore the earth to ideal conditions.
Jehovah's purpose will be fulfilled.
All faithful intelligent creatures will unites worship Him forever as their one true God
and sovereign.
As you read and study the Bible, note its internal harmony and practical wisdom, as well
as how each book contributes to its overall theme.
The vindication of Jehovah's name, which will be accomplished by means of His heavenly
kingdom in the hands of His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ.